[Music]
so let's be honest with ourselves shall
we when you brush your teeth do you take
the recommended two minutes this can
feel like an eternity when all you want
to do is head to bed so maybe you've
considered what would happen if you
stopped brushing would your teeth fall
out or would you be okay keep watching
to learn which approach would lead to
losing teeth and which leads to pearly
whites don't forget to click the
subscribe button and turn on
notifications to join us on the bright
side of life so this is what would
happen if you stopped brushing your
teeth and forgot all about oral health
as in didn't floss didn't use mouthwash
did nothing for your teeth for a year
zero nada niente it's not pretty
bacteria would accumulate in your mouth
if you don't brush for a day food
particles remain lodged between your
teeth creating a breeding ground for
bacteria
over time these bacteria would spread to
your tongue and gums as well you develop
a sticky film called a plaque now
everyone gets plaque to a certain extent
it's the thing your hygienist spends so
much time trying to remove during a
dental cleaning you might have a hard
time noticing that plaque is developing
because it's colorless and difficult to
see if your teeth aren't straight you
can expect even more plaque to
accumulate when plaque isn't removed
daily it can become quite hard and
lodged in place this can develop into
tartar and not the yummy tartar sauce
that's super tasty with fish no you
don't eat this tartar because it would
eventually eat it your gums painfully
you would hurt your gums now when it
comes to your mouth your gums need some
lovin too during a year of no brushing
you'd likely be suffering from swollen
and tender gums if your teeth are
carrying a ton of bacterial plaque and
tartar you can expect your gums to bleed
from time to time it's likely you
develop gingivitis which is the mildest
form of gum disease at the end of the
year you could reverse gingivitis with
the help of a dentist and medications
but it would take a little while if left
untreated gingivitis can develop into
periodontitis
that's when bacteria in your mouth throw
an extravagant party because they've
found a lovely home a bacterial
infection sets in and starts to break
away at the bones that support your
teeth once that starts to happen it's
hard to prevent someone from losing
their teeth your breath would get stinky
whoa people might start taking a step
back when they talk to you you know the
smell of morning breath your mouth would
smell like that 365 days a year there
would be no escaping onion or coffee
breath or the scent from smoking your
teeth would be carrying food particles
and that would produce bacteria that is
shall we say potent in odor mouth
bacteria can smell is a warning to the
person that there's a problem
instructing them to clean their mouths
your bad breath might be saying that
you're developing gingivitis it could
also be warning that there's an
underlying medical condition that needs
attention perhaps kidney problems if you
get used to the smell of your breath you
might ignore its purpose as a warning
system and miss an important health sign
your social anxiety levels might go up
if you notice that people aren't
interacting with you in a respectful
manner and you might become
self-conscious you might also get a
nickname behind your back like smells
like death or old landfill breath
you might suffer from tooth
demineralization your teeth need
minerals so they can remain strong as
you age you naturally lose minerals in
your teeth
which is why elderly teeth can be weaker
this process would occur much more
quickly if you ate a lot of sugar and
highly acidic foods and stop brushing
your teeth minerals like calcium and
phosphate are necessary to keep your
enamel strong and prevent tooth decay
after a year it's likely that none of
your teeth would be too demineralized to
actually fall out but you would be on
the way to losing your enamel and the
bones that support your teeth once
they're gone there's no way of
recovering them so in the long run you'd
have a high risk of losing teeth as
promised there is a way to get pearly
whites at the end of a year without
brushing it involves taking care of your
teeth with some alternative methods
counting down from method number four
mouthwash you wouldn't have to worry
about bad breath of you use mouthwash
your breath could stay minty fresh all
day your mouthwash could also help
prevent cavities and fight gum disease
if it contained alcohol and
chlorhexidine certain mouthwash is
called therapeutic mouth washes can
control plaque gingivitis and tooth
decay several are available
over-the-counter so you don't have to
visit a dentist to get a prescription
these types of mouth washes could help
you with any canker sores you develop in
the year by detoxing the area and if
your mouthwash has fluoride then
according to dr. nicholas Toscano a
diplomat of the American Board of
Periodontology it could help in reducing
demineralization and cavitations of the
teeth but this wouldn't be possible for
children under six since the American
Dental Association a DA advises them not
to use mouthwash as they're likely to
swallow it
method number three flossing can be
extremely effective according to dr.
Marc Bohan II a dentist in California
flossing is more important than brushing
if you stop brushing for a long time but
continue to floss you'd save your teeth
from any plaque buildup between the
teeth and right by the gums brushing and
flossing are both important but flossing
can get those hard-to-reach areas that a
brush can in the long run flossing would
prevent you from developing gum disease
you just need to make sure you're
flossing once a day as long as you
didn't let more than 24 hours pass
without flossing you'd be alright the
front of your teeth might still get
stained since they're not getting any
attention but you can prevent that if
you watch what you eat
alternative method number two avoid
sugar before you say you could never
quit sugar just know that it could be
the best way to successfully get out of
brush a doctor philippi who jaw a
dentist and professor of oral health at
the University of Washington School of
Dentistry says that the best way to
prevent cavities is not to brush but to
avoid eating sugar and other simple
carbohydrates why is that your mouth is
always host to bacteria certain bacteria
are more harmful than others and the
most dangerous type is the one that
loves the munch on the sugar in your
teeth so when you eat a lollipop or a
piece of cake it isn't just delicious
for you certain bacteria are throwing a
feast in your mouth bill the bacteria
emit assets that can destroy your tooth
enamel and form infections which leads
to cavities so staying off the sodas
cookies and sugary snacks is good for
your teeth if you did this you wouldn't
have to worry about cavities and might
even shed a few pounds
and method number one certain foods can
whiten your teeth you don't need a
toothbrush and whitening toothpaste for
your teeth to be pearly white you simply
have to stay away from foods that are
acidic and lower your mouths pH levels
and veer toward foods that are high in
alkaline content and raise the pH levels
according to dr. Jonathan Levine an
associate professor at the NYU School of
Dentistry apples are a great choice
because they're an alkaline fruit and
take the stains off the teeth sweet
potatoes can help whiten the teeth
pineapples contain bromelain which is an
ingredient that helps remove stains and
toothpaste strawberries contain malic
acid which can help prevent gum
inflammation rubbing your teeth against
the inside of an orange peel will put
your teeth in contact with lemonade
which is a substance used in many teeth
whitening products if you did this you
might even end up with whiter teeth and
you started with of course remember that
the safest approach is always to follow
the recommendations of the dental
community when it comes to taking care
of your teeth according to the ad a
people should brush twice a day it's
also recommended that you floss daily if
you want to make a change in your oral
health routine don't hesitate to visit
your dentist as they might be able to
create a plan for you that works with
your lifestyle so tell us bright ciders
what was the longest time you went
without brushing your teeth let us know
in the comments section below
don't forget to give this video a like
share it with your friends and click
subscribe to stay on the bright side
[Music]